we visited the University of Southern
California to see how these champion
swimmers and coaches rely on their basa
trainers to help them perform at their
best we use it for drylands three times
a week on our off days of weights and we
go
what are we doing right now a minute 15
seconds for six rounds it's a lot more
stroke specific than weights you know
it's really the motion is what you need
far more than just being in the weight
room and lifting weights a lot can do
for you like for me my problem is
dropping my elbow on the front of my
stroke and this was really helping me to
get my high elbow catch it ever run of
my stroke because I've never really done
that before
and it's made a huge difference swimming
is one of the best exercises known for
total body fitness in fact over 52
million people in the US alone swim for
fitness it's low-impact it builds
strength and flexibility and the aerobic
calorie-burning benefits are fantastic
however you don't get a body like these
athletes just by swimming laps the vasa
trainer has been the secret weapon of
world-class swimmers and triathletes for
12 years they use it to maximize their
sports specific strength power speed and
endurance they get strength training as
well as stretch and I think that's
extremely crucial especially when you
swim long course meters that's very
important to have long lean muscle and I
think Vassar really allows you to do
that top swim coaches worldwide
recognize the versatile training
benefits of the vasa trainer the thing
that we really try to focus on with the
vast trainer is good specific swimming
technique and you can really practice a
great high elbow catch which is
essential in all strokes and most
specifically for freestyle and butterfly
we use the vasa trainer on a regular
basis three times a week
we feel that it's very specific to
swimming as far as the catch and as far
as the finish of the stroke and what we
like about it is that you can gradually
increase the resistance you can
gradually increase the angle and so the
summers power and strength increases
throughout the season we have a well
planned out program of numbers of
repetition and increase of resistance as
the season goes on